---
title: Getting Started with MTConnect – Writing Client Applications
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-09-25T01:34:51.427Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-09-24T00:31:31.485Z
---

## Getting Started with MTConnect - Writing Client Applications

[GettingStartedWithMTConnectWritingClientsRevisionJuly2013.pdf](/pdfs/GettingStartedWithMTConnectWritingClientsRevisionJuly2013.pdf)

July, 2013

Dave Edstrom, Virtual Photons Electrons

This white paper was written for software developers who are interested
in writing MTConnect-enabled applications. The primary audience is
software developers who are not in the manufacturing arena and are
interested in creating MTConnect client applications. The reason for
this focus is to expand the number of software developers for MTConnect
and hopefully, the number of interesting applications that are created
for MTConnect enabled manufacturing equipment and devices.

If you are a software developer and in manufacturing, this will be a
helpful primer to learn about MTConnect. No matter what your experience
in manufacturing, the next step after reading this white paper will be
to become more familiar with MTConnect by reading the MTConnect
specification – Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4. If you are neither a software
developer, nor in manufacturing, the first part of this document will
give you a high-level architecture overview, but there are other
documents at MTConnect.org you would find more appropriate if your
interests are more business related.

This white paper is part of the “Getting Started With MTConnect” series
of documents. Please note this white paper will be receiving additional
updates and clarifications. The current MTConnect spec is version 1.2
The release date of this white paper is July 17th, 2013. Most of the
graphics in this presentation come from slides created by me or Will
Sobel, Chief Architect of MTConnect and President of System Insights.