---
title: Sensor Types
permalink: /Sensor_Types/
---

Types of measurements provided by *Sensor* include:

**Acceleration** The measurement of the linear acceleration of an
object.

**Angular Acceleration** The measurement of the acceleration of a
rotating object.

**Angular Velocity** The measurement of the velocity of a rotating
object.

**Amperage** The measurement of electrical current flow.

**Angle** The measurement of angular position of an object.

**Concentration** The measurement of how much of a substance is mixed
with another substance.

**Conductivity** The measurement of the ability of a material to conduct
electricity.

**Direction** The direction of movement of an object. Normally, this
will be reported as clockwise and counter clockwise for rotary motions
and positive or negative for linear motions.

**Displacement** The measurement of the distance of movement of an
object.

**Electrical Energy** The measurement of electrical energy consumed by a
component over a period of time.

**Flow** The measurement of the rate at which a volume of a fluid moves
within a system.

**Frequency** The measurement of the number of occurrences of a
repeating event per unit time.

**Fill Level** The measurement of the amount of a substance remaining
compared to the planned maximum of that substance.

**Linear Force** The magnitude of push or pull introduced by an actuator
or exerted on an object.

**Load** The measurement of the percentage of the standard rating of a
device.

**Mass** The measurement of the mass of an object(s) or an amount of
material.

**PH** The measurement of the acidity or alkalinity.

**Pressure** The measurement of the force per unit area exerted by a gas
or liquid.

**Position** The measurement of an objectâ€™s position relative to a
coordinate system.

**Power Factor** The measurement of the ratio of real power flowing to a
load to the apparent power in an AC circuit.

**Resistance** The measurement of the degree to which an object opposes
an electric current through it.

**Rotary Velocity** The measurement of the rotational speed of a
rotating object.

**Sound Level** The measurement of sound level.

**Strain** The measurement of the amount of deformation per unit length
of an object.

**Temperature** The measurement of the temperature of an object.

**Time** The measurement of time: may be reported as accumulated time
associated with a component or clock time.

**Tilt** The measurement of the angular displacement of an object.

**Torque** The measurement of torque applied to or by an object.

**Volt Ampere (VA)** The measure of the apparent power in an electrical
circuit, equal to the product of root-mean-square (RMS) voltage and RMS
current.

**Volt Ampere Reactive (var)** The measurement of reactive power in an
AC electric power system.

**Velocity** The measurement of the linear velocity of an object.

**Viscosity** The measurement of a fluid's resistance to flow.

**Voltage** The measurement of electrical potential between two points.

**Wattage** The measurement of power consumed or dissipated by an
electrical circuit or device.